# Docker image requirements

## Requirements

The docker-image satisfies the following requirements:

### Automatic Initialization

When this image will be used with empty shared folders this will be treated as first-start. All required configuration-files for a usual usage will then be generated by the application when the application is started.

### Update

The application in the container is not updateable.

To update the application inside the application must be started using an image which contains a newer version of the application.

### Migration

When the application will be started using a newer application-version than the last time the application was started then all files in the shared folders will automatically migrated to the new version so that the user can simply use a newer version of the application without changing any data in a shared folder manually.
This requirement only applies for updates where the minor- or patch-version changed. For major-updates this behavior is required if an unattended migration should be possible.

The application is not allowed to run when the data in the shared folder have the structure of an older major-version which is not migratable unattendedly. In this case the application must show information about this issue and exit with a non-zero-exitcode.

### Permissions inside Container

The 

### Versioning

The versioning scheme for tags of `stable` releases of the images must be `v{Major}.{Minor}.{Patch}`.
The version must be incremented due to the conditions described by (SemVer)[https://semver.org/].
There must always be a `latest`-tag which points to the same image as the latest `stable`-release-tag.
The image-version does not define the application-version. So the image-version and the version of the application inside the application may differ.
